# Nick-D1.github.io

This website was developed for my CS 465 Full Stack Development course and has since been updated for my CS 499 Capstone course. To improve the functionality of this application I focused on three main topics, Software Design and Engineering, Algorithms and Data Structures, and Database improvement. For the first topic I added a feedback form for users to submit their thoughts on the website. I felt this was a much-needed addition to the website and will enable me to make improvements in the future based on feedback. This helps to highlight my ability to implement changes to existing functional code in a dynamic way by making changes to multiple files throughout the project.  Next, I hardened the code against attacks by improving the login function, removing duplicates, and adding client-side validation along with loading flags to block repeat subs. This addition significantly hinders the ability for possible attack to the website, by enhancing the data structures and algorithms throughout the code base. Lastly, I updated the readability, adding cleaner code, and error handling, making it easier for others to follow my logic. This improvement shows that I can understand JavaScript and control flow, with the ability to have adaptable, readable, and maintainable code.

For the front end of this application, I used Express with Handlebars which functioned as the client-side website, leveraged server-side rendering for dynamic generation. Additionally, Angular was the admin interface built as an SPA. The SPA offered dynamic user experience on the client side which aided in managing the CRUD operations. The backend used a NoSQL MongoDB database for its schema flexibility and ability to scale accordingly. MongoDB aligned with the frontend data handling requirements and enabled an easy integration with necessary queries.

To improve the functionality of this application there were many examples of refactoring the code over the duration of this project. HTML files were updated regularly as I continued to add new functionality and implemented Handlebars. Additionally, refactoring many of the components in Angular allows for reusable code, that was able to keep up with the new functions of the application.

The front end was tested for conditional rendering of admin features, as well as the ability to interact with the backend to perform CRUD operation. The interaction with the database from HTTP methods of GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE. API endpoints were tested for the client-sides ability to communicate with the server. Regarding security, an authentication was enacted for users giving the valid JWT.

